# analytical_shaker

Analytical sieves are used in the field of pharmaceutics mostly for particle size analysis. In its basic form, sieves (containing the powder to be analyzed) of different pore diameters are vertically stacked and secured unto a mechanical shaker. The shaker provides vibrational force which allows uniform particle size distribution and descent of smaller particles unto sieves that have a smaller diameter than their size. Continuos application of this force allows separation of particles of different sizes collected in different sieves. The percentage weight thereof is useful in determining among other things, the effect of different treatment of powdered material before compression to tablets.
Our aim is to use our skill in 3D printing and mechanical assembly to build an initial test model of the mechanical shaker with sieves; which may not be analytical. This proof of concept will test whether particle size separation can be done using a restricted single axis movement of a solid base.
To achieve both vibrational and support base for the setup, we will adopt the full Y-axis assembly for the Prusa i3, including the metal platform. The vibration will be achieved by a back and forth movement restricted within a centimeter up and a centimeter down.
To host the lower sieve, we will design a square wooden elevated mount (s=210mm) which latches unto the platform with screws. mechanism. To prevent the sieves from falling apart during agitation, we will creat a depression on the wooden platform to allow the stuck of sieves sit in. We will also lock the whole setup with a wooden crossbar supported on two vertically arranged threaded supports (that will be fitted into cavities created on the wooden mount).
To test the efficiency of our mechanical shaker, we will design and print plastic sieves (d=150 mm). The printing could be performed in one of two ways; (a) we print the sieves without perforations and make finer perforations with a laser-cutter or (b) we print sieves with the perforation of different diameters. The limitation we envisage with the latter is that, we may not get very small diameters of pores.
